[DOCS-11051] Add Azure Event Hub using Kafka source (#30211)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/observability_pipelines/sources/azure_event_hubs.md

### Create an Azure Event Hubs namespace

1. In the Azure Portal, navigate to [Event Hubs](https://portal.azure.com/#browse/Microsoft.EventHub%2Fnamespaces).
1. Click **Create**.
1. Fill in the **Project Details** (subscription, resource group) and **Instance Details** (namespace name, region, select Standard, Premium, or Dedicated tier).
1. Ensure the region matches your Azure resources (for example, `westus`).
1. Click **Review + create**.

**Note**: The Kafka endpoint is automatically enabled for standard and higher tiers.

### Create an event hub (Kafka topic)

1. In the namespace you created, select **Event Hubs** and click **+ Event Hub**.
1. Enter a name (for example, `datadog-topic`) and configure the settings (for example, 4 partitions and a 7-day retention time).
1. Click **Review + create**. This Event Hub acts as a Kafka topic.

### Configure shared access policy

1. In the Event Hub you created, navigate to **Settings** > **Shared access policies**.
1. Click **+ Add**.
1. Enter a policy name (for example, `DatadogKafkaPolicy`).
1. Select the **Manage** checkbox, which should automatically select the **Send** and **Listen** checkboxes.
1. Click **Create**.

> 1. Copy the **Connection string-primary key** for Kafka authentication.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Copy the **Primary connection string** to use for Kafka authentication.
```

1. Append the Kafka port `:9093` to form the Bootstrap Servers value: `<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net:9093`.
    - For example, if your namespace is `myeventhubns`, the Bootstrap Servers is `myeventhubns.servicebus.windows.net:9093`.
    - You need this information when you set up the Observability Pipelines Kafka source.

#### Set up authentication

1. Azure Event Hubs uses SASL_SSL with the PLAIN mechanism for Kafka authentication.
1. The connection string is formatted for Observability Pipelines:
    ```
    Username: $ConnectionString
    Password: Endpoint=sb://<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=<PolicyName>;SharedAccessKey=<Key>
    ```

## Set up a pipeline with the Kafka source

1. Navigate to [Observability Pipelines](https://app.datadoghq.com/observability-pipelines).
1. Select the Kafka source.
    1.  In the **Group ID** field, specify or create a unique consumer group (for example, `datadog-consumer-group`).
    1.  Enter `datadog-topic` in the **Topics** field.
    1.  Toggle the switch to enable SASL authentication.
    1.  In the **Mechanism** dropdown menu, select **PLAIN**.
    1.  Enable TLS.

>         1.  Download the certificate from [https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) and save it to `/var/lib/observability-pipelines-worker/config/cert.pem`.

Reviewer: Suggested change looks good to me.

Regarding cert, I don't really know 😓 I could ask the broader PSA team and see if someone smarter than me on these things has any thoughts?

>         1.  Download the certificate from [https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) and save it to `/var/lib/observability-pipelines-worker/config/cert.pem`.

Reviewer: I asked PSA team for suggestions, I am out of my depth here

>         1.  Download the certificate from [https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) and save it to `/var/lib/observability-pipelines-worker/config/cert.pem`.

Reviewer: Someone Smarter than me helped me out :) @krlv (Thank you so much!)

His verbatim response below:

> okay, I think I got it. Azure Events Hub supports SASL/PLAIN auth only over SSL encrypted connection (kinda make sense -- you're sending the password in a plain text over the wire). So in your case, OPW has to use TLS encryption for the authentication request.
>
> Moreover, based on [this comment](https://github.com/Azure/azure-event-hubs-for-kafka/issues/52#issuecomment-497139765), i have a hunch that any trusted root cert will work -- even the one from the ca-certificates/OpenSSL. if you're running OPW on a linux instance, you should probably use `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` or `/usr/lib/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` instead of downloading it from the cURL website.
> 
> Back to your original question in GH -- no, we shouldn't host the CA certs on our docs site. We don't host root certs; even when we changed the one used to sign Datadog certs, we just pointed users to download it directly from the DigiCert website: https://docs.datadoghq.com/data_security/guide/tls_cert_chain_of_trust/?tab=g1rootcertificateold#action-needed
>
> My 2 cents on the doc: I'd highly recommend testing the ca-certificates package (using `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` as the "Certificate path" in the OP UI) before suggesting customers download and mount root CA cert from the internet. Hopefully OPW can handle .crt files in addition to .pem. If this works, we can simply reference ca-certificates in the docs and provide `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt` as an example.

@emarsha94 and/or I will need to test this, I think we must do this before we proceed with publishing. I'll also check container land for these certs to see if they can be used. Hopefully our Azure Event Hubs environment is still around so we can test this without having to set everything up again 🤞

>         1.  Download the certificate from [https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html](https://curl.se/docs/caextract.html) and save it to `/var/lib/observability-pipelines-worker/config/cert.pem`.

Reviewer: I just don't know if those certs already exist on a standard distribution or in our container image and if they'll work, thus why I want to test again.

        1.  Enter `/cert.pem` in the **Certificate path** field.
1. Click **Next: Select Destination**.
1. After you set up your destinations and processors, click **Next: Install**.
1. Select your platform in the **Choose your installation platform** dropdown menu.
1. Enter the environment variables for your Kafka source:

>     1.  For **Kafka Bootstrap Servers**, enter `\<NAMESPACE\>.servicebus.windows.net:9093` (for example, `myeventhubns.servicebus.windows.net:9093`).

Author: I was using Gemini and I think it added the `\`. 🙃 
```suggestion
    1.  For **Kafka Bootstrap Servers**, enter `<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net:9093` (for example, `myeventhubns.servicebus.windows.net:9093`).
```

    1.  For **Kafka SASL Username**, enter `$ConnectionString`.
    1.  For **Kafka SASL Password**, enter the full connection string (for example, `Endpoint=sb://<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=<PolicyName>;SharedAccessKey=<Key>`).

>     1. Enter your Kafka TLS passphrase.

Reviewer: I think we left this blank in our test, but @emarsha94 will have to confirm -- I don't see in either of our notes where we denoted needing this.

Reviewer: Correct

Reviewer: Since I am going to have to set this up to test it again for the certificate, I'll make note if we leave this blank or not when we get it to a working state.

Reviewer: resolved below after testing again:

> This is the **Primary Key** in your Event Hub instance's [shared access policies](#configure-shared-access-policy).
    {{< img src="observability_pipelines/sources/kafka_env_vars.png" alt="The install page with example values for the kafka environment variables" style="width:100%;" >}}
    
https://github.com/DataDog/logs-psa-private/tree/main/POCs-Opps-hacks/k8s-op-certificates#:~:text=Kafka%20TLS%20Passphrase

1. Enter the environment variables for your destinations, if applicable.
1. Follow the rest of the instructions on the page to install the Worker based on your platform.

> #### Configure the Observability Pipelines environment file

Reviewer: This will be covered by the install steps in app when they run the install command, they should only need to do this manually if something went wrong with the install and they need to modify it after the fact, so maybe we should re-word this to say "Check your Observability Pipelines environments file"? or add some additional flavor text about editing this post install should you need to?

Author: I made a suggestion below, is that correct? Should they see those env vars and their values in the environment file after they have installed the Worker?

Reviewer: Yes they should, LGTM

> In the Observability Pipelines environment file (`/etc/default/observability-pipelines-worker`), add the following connection variables:

Reviewer: LGTM

1. Append the Kafka port `:9093` to form the Bootstrap Servers value: `<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net:9093`.
    - For example, if your namespace is `myeventhubns`, the Bootstrap Servers is `myeventhubns.servicebus.windows.net:9093`.
    - You need this information when you set up the Observability Pipelines Kafka source.

#### Set up authentication

1. Azure Event Hubs uses SASL_SSL with the PLAIN mechanism for Kafka authentication.
1. The connection string is formatted for Observability Pipelines:
    ```
    Username: $$ConnectionString
    Password: Endpoint=sb://<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=<PolicyName>;SharedAccessKey=<Key>
    ```

## Set up a pipeline with the Kafka source

Select your platform.

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Kubernetes" %}}
1. Navigate to [Observability Pipelines](https://app.datadoghq.com/observability-pipelines).
1. Select the Kafka source.
    1.  In the **Group ID** field, specify or create a unique consumer group (for example, `datadog-consumer-group`).

>     1.  Enter `datadog-topic` in the **Topics** field.

Reviewer: Should this say something like "or the topic you configured for your Event Hub"? We suggest this value above, but it may not be the value the customer uses right?

    1.  Toggle the switch to enable SASL authentication.
    1.  In the **Mechanism** dropdown menu, select **PLAIN**.
    1.  Enable TLS.
        1. Configure your `values.yaml` file to use the certificate that works as part of the container image:
            ```
            initContainers:
            - name: copy-config
            image: gcr.io/datadoghq/observability-pipelines-worker:latest
            imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
            command: ['/bin/sh', '-c', 'mkdir -p /config-volume/observability-pipelines-worker/config/ && cp /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt /config-volume/observability-pipelines-worker/config/ca-certificates.crt']
            volumeMounts:
            - name: config-volume
                mountPath: /config-volume
            extraVolumes:
            - name: config-volume
            emptyDir: {}
            extraVolumeMounts:
            - name: config-volume
            mountPath: /config-volume
            ```
            **Note**: When install the Worker with the install command you need to add:
            ```
            --set env[0].name=DD_OP_DATA_DIR,env[0].value='/config-volume/observability-pipelines-worker/'
            ```

>         1. In the **Certificate path** field, enter `/cert.pem`.

Author: @ckelner I'm not sure what the user should enter in the UI here.

Reviewer: So when they add the init container they chose what to call the file, currently line 101 here: https://github.com/DataDog/documentation/pull/30211/files#diff-bbd5e4a879952a151f7689b8580757bfe890c7ba1f004db9eaeb96eeba6cd2cbR101

> command: ['/bin/sh', '-c', 'mkdir -p /config-volume/observability-pipelines-worker/config/ && cp /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt /config-volume/observability-pipelines-worker/config/ca-certificates.crt']

In this case we've not renamed it, so they would enter `/ca-certificates.crt`

Author: Link to TLS cert doc

1. Follow the rest of the instructions on the page to install the Worker based on your platform.
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Virtual machine (VM)" %}}

1. Navigate to [Observability Pipelines](https://app.datadoghq.com/observability-pipelines).
1. Select the Kafka source.
    1.  In the **Group ID** field, specify or create a unique consumer group (for example, `datadog-consumer-group`).
    1.  Enter `datadog-topic` in the **Topics** field.
    1.  Toggle the switch to enable SASL authentication.
    1.  In the **Mechanism** dropdown menu, select **PLAIN**.
    1.  Enable TLS. For the certificate, copy the certificate from its original location to the default Observability Pipelines data configuration directory:
        1. Since the Observability Pipelines Worker hasn't been installed yet, run this command to create the directory for the certificate:
            ```
            sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/observability-pipelines-worker/config
            ```
        1. Run this command to copy the certificate to the directory you created:
            ```
            sudo cp /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt /var/lib/observability-pipelines-worker/config/
            ```

>         1. In the **Certificate path** field, enter `/cert.pem`.

Author: @ckelner I'm not sure what users should enter in the UI here.

Reviewer: In the step before this we have them copy the cert without renaming it: `sudo cp /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt /var/lib/observability-pipelines-worker/config/` so `/ca-certificates.crt` should be used here.

    {{< img src="observability_pipelines/sources/kafka_settings.png" alt="The Kafka source settings with example values" style="width:45%;" >}}
1. Click **Next: Select Destination**.
1. After you set up your destinations and processors, click **Next: Install**.
1. Select your platform in the **Choose your installation platform** dropdown menu.
1. Enter the environment variables for your Kafka source:
    1.  For **Kafka Bootstrap Servers**, enter `<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net:9093` (for example, `myeventhubns.servicebus.windows.net:9093`).
    1.  For **Kafka SASL Username**, enter `\$\$ConnectionString`. **Note**: You must escape the `$` in front of `ConnectionString`, otherwise the environment variable won't be loaded.

>     1.  For **Kafka SASL Password**, enter the full connection string (for example, `Endpoint=sb://<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=<PolicyName>;SharedAccessKey=<Key>`).

Reviewer: Do we want to note this needs to be wrapped in quotes? https://github.com/DataDog/logs-psa-private/tree/main/POCs-Opps-hacks/k8s-op-certificates#virtual-machine-setup:~:text=DD_OP_SOURCE_KAFKA_SASL_PASSWORD%20must%20be%20wrapped%20in%20quotes

        - This is the **Primary Connection String** in your Event Hub instance [shared access policies](#configure-shared-access-policy).
    1. Enter your Kafka TLS passphrase.
        - This is the **Primary Key** in your Event Hub instance's [shared access policies](#configure-shared-access-policy).
    {{< img src="observability_pipelines/sources/kafka_env_vars.png" alt="The install page with example values for the kafka environment variables" style="width:100%;" >}}

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Troubleshooting

If you run into issues after installing the Worker, check your Observability Pipelines environment file (`/etc/default/observability-pipelines-worker`) to make sure the environment variables are correctly set:

-   `DD_OP_SOURCE_KAFKA_SASL_USERNAME="$$ConnectionString"`
-   `DD_OP_SOURCE_KAFKA_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS=<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net:9093`

> -   `DD_OP_SOURCE_KAFKA_SASL_PASSWORD=<Endpoint=sb://<NAMESPACE>.servicebus.windows.net/;SharedAccessKeyName=<PolicyName>;SharedAccessKey=<Key>>`

Reviewer: Do we want to add `DD_OP_SOURCE_KAFKA_KEY_PASS` here as well?
